the top 10 of food myths are that
low-fat equals healthy you actually need
fat in your diet to protect your joints
to feed your brain and a lot of low fat
processed foods are filled with extra
sugar and salt and preservatives to make
them taste good so low fat foods may
actually be worse for you than their
high fat versions another food myth is
that baked foods are healthier than
fried foods many baked foods are
actually just as bad for you in terms of
your cardiovascular health and your
insulin levels a lot of baked foods that
you'll find in packages are filled with
extra salt and extra sugar and may
actually be filled with trans fats as
well another top ten food myth is that
wooden cutting boards are not safe
actually wooden cutting boards will
protect you from bacterial contamination
just because you're cutting into a board
with a knife doesn't mean the bacteria
are gonna harbor their way into the wood
when you clean it properly with hot
water and soap you're getting rid of all
the surface bacteria and actually using
plastic cutting boards over time will
cause little pieces of plastic to chip
off into your food which you don't need
salads can be a health food but that
might be a myth if you're building your
salads improperly you can make a great
salad with lots of healthy fruits and
vegetables even nuts and seeds but if
you're using your salad as a way to get
Bakos and high fat and highly sugared
dressings into your body it's not just a
health food anymore it can be a myth
that chicken is a healthy meat chicken
can be healthy if it's organic and if
it's not fried if you choose to eat
animal proteins but if you're eating
your chicken deep-fried or if it's not
organic then it's definitely being fed
things like growth hormones antibiotics
and even arsenic what can show up in the
meat that you consume so be sure to
choose organic chicken and either bake
it or saute it but don't fry it
it is a myth that you need dairy in your
diet to grow or maintain healthy bones
there are countless cultures around this
planet that do not have dairy as a
traditional food source and they have no
problem maintaining healthy bones and
avoiding osteoporosis so it's a myth
that you need to get your calcium from
dairy get your calcium instead from
healthier choices that are low fat and
cholesterol free like green leafy
veggies and sea vegetables and nuts and
seeds another top food myth is that you
shouldn't eat after 9:00 p.m. at night
well that may be true for some people
some of the time but you're not
necessarily going to gain a lot of
weight or ruin your night's sleep
if you eat after 9:00 o'clock if you're
staying up late or if you work the night
shift and it depends on what you eat at
night as well maybe you're having an
apple or a few crackers before bed
that's not going to ruin your diet or
your good health intentions there is a
myth that sea salt has less sodium i'm
here to tell you sea salt has the same
amount of sodium as other regular table
salt but sea salt might have some trace
elements and minerals in it that you're
not getting from refined white granular
table salt it's a myth that brown sugar
is healthier for you than white sugar
they're basically the same thing they've
just added some of the molasses that
they've stripped away to create white
sugar and added it back in for color and
flavor so brown sugar is basically white
sugar with a little coloring added to it
the final myth is that you just exercise
so you need a sports drink that's not
really true humans have somehow evolved
this far without sports drinks you can
exercise all day and get by perfectly
well with good clean water and a nice
healthy meal so these were my top 10
food myths that you can use to help you
start making better choices
you